BREAKING CHANGE: remove support for launch configuration and replace `count` with `for_each` (#1680)
terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-eks: README.md

```hcl
  cluster_version = "1.21"

  self_managed_node_groups = {
    bottlerocket = {
      platform = "bottlerocket"
      ami_id   = data.aws_ami.bottlerocket_ami.id
    }
  }
```

### Fargate Profiles

Fargate profiles are rather straightforward. Simply supply the necessary information for the desired profile(s). See the [`examples/fargate_profile/` example](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-eks/tree/master/examples/fargate_profile) for a working example of the various configurations.

### Mixed Node Groups

ℹ️ Only the pertinent attributes are shown for brevity

Users are free to mix and match the different node group types that meet their needs. For example, the following are just an example of the different possibilities:
- AWS EKS Cluster with one or more AWS EKS Managed Node Groups
- AWS EKS Cluster with one or more Self Managed Node Groups
- AWS EKS Cluster with one or more Fargate profiles
- AWS EKS Cluster with one or more AWS EKS Managed Node Groups, one or more Self Managed Node Groups, one or more Fargate profiles

> It is also possible to have the various node groups of each family configured differently, as well as externally defined (outside of the root `eks` module definition) node groups using the provided sub-modules attached to the cluster created - there are no restrictions on the the various different possibilities provided by the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to configure the various node groups of each family differently. Node groups may also be defined outside of the root `eks` module definition by using the provided sub-modules. There are no restrictions on the the various different possibilities provided by the module.
```

      desired_size = 1

      instance_types = ["t3.large"]
      capacity_type  = "SPOT"
      labels = {
        Environment = "test"
        GithubRepo  = "terraform-aws-eks"
        GithubOrg   = "terraform-aws-modules"
      }

      taints = {
        dedicated = {
          key    = "dedicated"
          value  = "gpuGroup"
          effect = "NO_SCHEDULE"
        }
      }

      update_config = {
        max_unavailable_percentage = 50 # or set `max_unavailable`
      }

      tags = {
        ExtraTag = "example"
      }
    }
  }

  # Fargate Profile(s)
  fargate_profiles = {
    default = {
      name = "default"
      selectors = [
        {
          namespace = "kube-system"
          labels = {
            k8s-app = "kube-dns"
          }
        },
        {
          namespace = "default"
        }
      ]

      tags = {
        Owner = "test"
      }

      timeouts = {
        create = "20m"
        delete = "20m"
      }
    }
  }
```

See the [`examples/complete/` example](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-eks/tree/master/examples/complete) for a working example of these configurations.

### Default configurations

> Each node group type (EKS managed node group, self managed node group, Fargate profile) provides a default configuration setting that allows users to provide their own default configurations instead of the modules default configurations. This allows users to set a common set of defaults for their node groups and still maintain the ability to override these settings within the specific node group definition. The order of precedence for each node group type roughly follows (from highest precedence, to least):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each node group type (EKS managed node group, self managed node group, or Fargate profile) provides a default configuration setting that allows users to provide their own default configuration instead of the module's default configuration. This allows users to set a common set of defaults for their node groups and still maintain the ability to override these settings within the specific node group definition. The order of precedence for each node group type roughly follows (from highest to least precedence):
```

    create_launch_template = true
  }

  eks_managed_node_groups = {
    # Uses defaults provided by module with the default settings above overriding the module defaults
    default = {}

    # This further overrides the instance types used
    compute = {
      instance_types = ["c5.large", "c6i.large", "c6d.large"]
    }

    # This further overrides the instance types and disk size used
    persistent = {
      disk_size = 1024
      instance_types = ["r5.xlarge", "r6i.xlarge", "r5b.xlarge"]
    }

    # This overrides the OS used
    bottlerocket = {
      ami_type = "BOTTLEROCKET_x86_64"
      platform = "bottlerocket"
    }
  }
```

## Module Design Considerations

### General Notes

While the module is designed to be flexible and support as many use cases and configurations as possible, there is a limit to what first class support can be provided without over-burdening the complexity of the module. Below are a list of general notes on the design intent captured by this module which hopefully explains some of the decisions that are, or will be made, in terms of what is added/supported natively by the module:

> - Despite the addition of Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL for short), containerization technology is very much a suite of Linux constructs and therefore Linux is the primary OS supported by this module. In addition, due to the first class support provided by AWS, Bottlerocket OS and Fargate Profiles are also very much fully supported by this module. This module does not make any attempt to NOT support Windows, as in preventing the usage of Windows based nodes, however it is up to users to put in additional effort in order to operate Windows based nodes when using the module. User can refer to the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/windows-support.html) for further details. What does this mean:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Despite the addition of Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL for short), containerization technology is very much a suite of Linux constructs and therefore Linux is the primary OS supported by this module. In addition, due to the first class support provided by AWS, Bottlerocket OS and Fargate Profiles are also very much fully supported by this module. This module does not make any attempt to NOT support Windows, as in preventing the usage of Windows based nodes, however it is up to users to put in additional effort in order to operate Windows based nodes when using the module. User can refer to the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/windows-support.html) for further details. What this means is:
```

  - AWS EKS Managed Node Groups default to `linux` as the `platform`, but `bottlerocket` is also supported by AWS (`windows` is not supported by AWS EKS Managed Node groups)
  - AWS Self Managed Node Groups also default to `linux` and the default AMI used is the latest AMI for the selected Kubernetes version. If you wish to use a different OS or AMI then you will need to opt in to the necessary configurations to ensure the correct AMI is used in conjunction with the necessary user data to ensure the nodes are launched and joined to your cluster successfully.

> - AWS EKS Managed Node groups are current the preferred route over Self Managed Node Groups for compute nodes. Both operate very similarly - both are backed by autoscaling groups and launch templates deployed and visible within your account. However, AWS EKS Managed Node groups provide a better user experience and offer a more "managed service" experience and therefore has precedence over Self Managed Node Groups. That said, there are currently inherent limitations as AWS continues to rollout additional feature support similar to the level of customization you can achieve with Self Managed Node Groups. When requesting added feature support for AWS EKS Managed Node groups, please ensure you have verified that the feature(s) are 1) supported by AWS and 2) supported by the Terraform AWS provider before submitting a feature request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AWS EKS Managed Node groups are currently the preferred route over Self Managed Node Groups for compute nodes. Both operate very similarly - both are backed by autoscaling groups and launch templates deployed and visible within your account. However, AWS EKS Managed Node groups provide a better user experience and offer a more "managed service" experience and therefore has precedence over Self Managed Node Groups. That said, there are currently inherent limitations as AWS continues to rollout additional feature support similar to the level of customization you can achieve with Self Managed Node Groups. When requesting added feature support for AWS EKS Managed Node groups, please ensure you have verified that the feature(s) are 1) supported by AWS and 2) supported by the Terraform AWS provider before submitting a feature request.
```

Nodes need to be able to contact the EKS cluster endpoint. By default, the module only creates a public endpoint. To access the endpoint, the nodes need outgoing internet access:

- Nodes in private subnets: via a NAT gateway or instance along with the appropriate routing rules
- Nodes in public subnets: ensure that nodes are launched with public IPs is enabled (either through the module here or your subnet setting defaults)

<strong>Important: If you apply only the public endpoint and configure the `cluster_endpoint_public_access_cidrs` to restrict access, know that EKS nodes will also use the public endpoint and you must allow access to the endpoint. If not, then your nodes will fail to work correctly.</strong>

Cluster private endpoint can also be enabled by setting `cluster_endpoint_private_access = true` on this module. Node communication to the endpoint stays within the VPC. Ensure that VPC DNS resolution and hostnames are also enabled for your VPC when the private endpoint is enabled.

> Nodes need to be able to connect to other AWS services plus pull down container images from container registries (ECR). If for some reason you cannot enable public internet access for nodes you can add VPC endpoints to the relevant services: EC2 API, ECR API, ECR DKR and S3.

Author: Thank you for that feedback! While I do agree with the sentiment shared, I am cautiously trying to avoid re-creating the current situation where various bits of documentation are added for "How to troubleshoot EKS". I'll have to think on how best to incorporate the suggestion without going down that rabbit hole. Ideally, the docs here provided something short and to the point of "Here is what you need, and go look at x,y,z for help troubleshooting any issues that you may encounter"

> Nodes need to be able to connect to other AWS services plus pull down container images from container registries (ECR). If for some reason you cannot enable public internet access for nodes you can add VPC endpoints to the relevant services: EC2 API, ECR API, ECR DKR and S3.

Reviewer: I think the minimum is to mention that there is a second potential cause.

<h4>How can I work with the cluster if I disable the public endpoint?</h4>

You have to interact with the cluster from within the VPC that it is associated with; either through a VPN connection, a bastion EC2 instance, etc.

<h4>How can I stop Terraform from removing the EKS tags from my VPC and subnets?</h4>

> You need to add the tags to the VPC and subnets yourself. See the [basic example](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-eks/tree/master/examples/basic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to add the tags to the Terraform definition of the VPC and subnets yourself. See the [basic example](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-eks/tree/master/examples/basic).
```

An alternative is to use the aws provider's [`ignore_tags` variable](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/#ignore_tags-configuration-block). However this can also cause terraform to display a perpetual difference.

<h4>Why are there no changes when a node group's desired count is modified?</h4>

The module is configured to ignore this value. Unfortunately, Terraform does not support variables within the `lifecycle` block. The setting is ignored to allow the cluster autoscaler to work correctly so that `terraform apply` does not accidentally remove running workers. You can change the desired count via the CLI or console if you're not using the cluster autoscaler.

If you are not using autoscaling and want to control the number of nodes via terraform, set the `min_size` and `max_size` for node groups. Before changing those values, you must satisfy AWS `desired_size` constraints (which must be between new min/max values).

<h4>Why are nodes not recreated when the `launch_template` is recreated?</h4>

> By default the ASG is not configured to be recreated when the launch configuration or template changes; you will need to use a process to drain and cycle the nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the ASG for a self-managed node group is not configured to be recreated when the launch configuration or template changes; you will need to use a process to drain and cycle the nodes.
```

> By default the ASG is not configured to be recreated when the launch configuration or template changes; you will need to use a process to drain and cycle the nodes.

Reviewer: Is this not only relevant for self-managed groups?

Author: I don't believe this is related to AWS EKS managed node groups because there are provisions to [force updates](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/eks_node_group#force_update_version) as well as update [configuration](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/eks_node_group#update_config-configuration-block)

However, I see a reference to launch configuration here that I need to remove

If you are NOT using the cluster autoscaler:

- Add a new instance
- Drain an old node `kubectl drain --force --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data ip-xxxxxxx.eu-west-1.compute.internal`
- Wait for pods to be Running
- Terminate the old node instance. ASG will start a new instance
- Repeat the drain and delete process until all old nodes are replaced

If you are using the cluster autoscaler:

- Drain an old node `kubectl drain --force --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data ip-xxxxxxx.eu-west-1.compute.internal`
- Wait for pods to be Running
- Cluster autoscaler will create new nodes when required
- Repeat until all old nodes are drained
- Cluster autoscaler will terminate the old nodes after 10-60 minutes automatically

You can also use a third-party tool like Gruntwork's kubergrunt. See the [`eks deploy`](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/kubergrunt#deploy) subcommand.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Alternatively, use a managed node group instead.
```

        ExtraTag = "example"
      }
    }
  }

  # Fargate Profile(s)
  fargate_profiles = {
    default = {
      name = "default"
      selectors = [
        {
          namespace = "kube-system"
          labels = {
            k8s-app = "kube-dns"
          }
        },
        {
          namespace = "default"
        }
      ]

      tags = {
        Owner = "test"
      }

      timeouts = {
        create = "20m"
        delete = "20m"
      }
    }
  }

  tags = {
    Environment = "dev"
    Terraform   = "true"
  }
}
```

## Node Group Configuration

⚠️ The configurations shown below are referenced from within the root EKS module; there will be slight differences in the default values provided when compared to the underlying sub-modules (`eks-managed-node-group`, `self-managed-node-group`, and `fargate-profile`).

### EKS Managed Node Groups

ℹ️ Only the pertinent attributes are shown for brevity

1. By default, the `eks-managed-node-group` sub-module will use the default configurations provided by AWS EKS Managed Node Groups; EKS MNG will provide its own launch template and utilize the latest AWS EKS Optimized AMI (Linux) for the given Kubernetes version:

```hcl

>   eks_managed_node_groups = {
>     default = {}
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  eks_managed_node_groups = {
    default_launch_temlate = {
       create_launch_template = false        
    }
  }
```

```

2. AWS EKS Managed Node Group also offers native, default support for Bottlerocket OS by simply specifying the AMI type:

```hcl
  eks_managed_node_groups = {
    bottlerocket_default = {
      ami_type = "BOTTLEROCKET_x86_64"
      platform = "bottlerocket"
    }
  }
```

3. AWS EKS Managed Node Groups allow you to extend configurations by providing your own launch template and user data that is merged with what the service provides. For example, to provide additional user data before the nodes are bootstrapped as well as supply additional arguments to the bootstrap script:

```hcl
  eks_managed_node_groups = {
    extend_config = {

>       create_launch_template = true
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

      # This is supplied to the AWS EKS Optimized AMI
      # bootstrap script https://github.com/awslabs/amazon-eks-ami/blob/master/files/bootstrap.sh
      bootstrap_extra_args = "--container-runtime containerd --kubelet-extra-args '--max-pods=20'"

      # This user data will be injected prior to the user data provided by the
      # AWS EKS Managed Node Group service (contains the actually bootstrap configuration)
      pre_bootstrap_user_data = <<-EOT
        export CONTAINER_RUNTIME="containerd"
        export USE_MAX_PODS=false
      EOT
    }
  }
```

4. The same configurations extension is offered when utilizing Bottlerocket OS AMIs, but the user data is slightly different. Bottlerocket OS uses a TOML user data file and you can provide additional configuration settings via the `bootstrap_extra_args` variable which gets merged into what is provided by the AWS EKS Managed Node Service:

```hcl
  eks_managed_node_groups = {
    bottlerocket_extend_config = {

>       create_launch_template = true
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ```

      ami_type = "BOTTLEROCKET_x86_64"
      platform = "bottlerocket"

      create_launch_template = true

      # this will get added to what AWS provides
      bootstrap_extra_args = <<-EOT
      # extra args added
      [settings.kernel]
      lockdown = "integrity"
      EOT
    }
  }
```

5. Users can also utilize a custom AMI, but doing so means that AWS EKS Managed Node Group will NOT inject the necessary bootstrap script and configurations into the user data supplied to the launch template. When using a custom AMI, users must also opt in to bootstrapping the nodes  via user data and either use the module default user data template or provide your own user data template file:

```hcl
  eks_managed_node_groups = {
    custom_ami = {

>       create_launch_template = true
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

      ami_id = "ami-0caf35bc73450c396"

      # By default, EKS managed node groups will not append bootstrap script;
      # this adds it back in using the default template provided by the module
      # Note: this assumes the AMI provided is an EKS optimized AMI derivative
      enable_bootstrap_user_data = true

      bootstrap_extra_args = "--container-runtime containerd --kubelet-extra-args '--max-pods=20'"

      pre_bootstrap_user_data = <<-EOT
        export CONTAINER_RUNTIME="containerd"
        export USE_MAX_PODS=false
      EOT

      # Because we have full control over the user data supplied, we can also run additional
      # scripts/configuration changes after the bootstrap script has been run
      post_bootstrap_user_data = <<-EOT
        echo "you are free little kubelet!"
      EOT
    }
  }
```

6. Similarly, for Bottlerocket there is similar support:

```hcl
  eks_managed_node_groups = {
    bottlerocket_custom_ami = {
      ami_id   = "ami-0ff61e0bcfc81dc94"
      platform = "bottlerocket"

>       create_launch_template = true
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ```

          on_demand_percentage_above_base_capacity = 10
          spot_allocation_strategy                 = "capacity-optimized"
        }

        override = [
          {
            instance_type     = "m5.large"
            weighted_capacity = "1"
          },
          {
            instance_type     = "m6i.large"
            weighted_capacity = "2"
          },
        ]
      }

      pre_bootstrap_user_data = <<-EOT
      echo "foo"
      export FOO=bar
      EOT

      bootstrap_extra_args = "--kubelet-extra-args '--node-labels=node.kubernetes.io/lifecycle=spot'"

      post_bootstrap_user_data = <<-EOT
      cd /tmp
      sudo yum install -y https://s3.amazonaws.com/ec2-downloads-windows/SSMAgent/latest/linux_amd64/amazon-ssm-agent.rpm
      sudo systemctl enable amazon-ssm-agent
      sudo systemctl start amazon-ssm-agent
      EOT
    }
  }

  # EKS Managed Node Group(s)
  eks_managed_node_group_defaults = {
    ami_type               = "AL2_x86_64"
    disk_size              = 50
    instance_types         = ["m6i.large", "m5.large", "m5n.large", "m5zn.large"]
    vpc_security_group_ids = [aws_security_group.additional.id]

>     create_launch_template = true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
